README.md, before:

# GeminiTeacher

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/geminiteacher.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/geminiteacher)
[![Build status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/main.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/actions/workflows/main.yml?query=branch%3Amain)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher)](https://img.shields.io/github/license/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher)

**GeminiTeacher** is an AI-powered course creation toolkit using Google's Gemini LLM. It transforms raw text, markdown, or documents into structured, lesson-based educational content. Ideal for educators, developers, and content creators.

- **Full Documentation**: [https://supersheepbear.github.io/GeminiTeacher/](https://supersheepbear.github.io/GeminiTeacher/)
- **Source Code**: [https://github.com/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/](https://github.com/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/)

## Ways to Use GeminiTeacher

There are two primary ways to use GeminiTeacher, based on your preference.

| Method | Description | Best For |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 🚀 **GUI Application** | A user-friendly graphical interface with all options available. | Users who prefer a visual interface and easy controls. |
| 💻 **Command-Line (CLI)** | A powerful command-line tool for experts and automation. | Power users, developers, and integration into scripts. |

### Quick Start (GUI)

1.  **Installation**: Follow the [**Installation and Setup Guide**](./docs/installation.md).
2.  **Launch the App**: Run the following command in your terminal:
    ```bash
    uv run geminiteacher-gui
    ```
3.  **Generate**: Fill in the fields and click "Generate Course". See the full [**GUI Guide**](./docs/gui.md) for more details.

### Quick Start (CLI)

The command-line interface is best managed with a `config.yaml` file.

#### 1. Installation

First, install the package and set up your API key by following the [**Installation and Setup Guide**](./docs/installation.md).

#### 2. Create Your Content

Create a text file with the raw material for your course. This can be a `.txt`, `.md`, `.rst`, or any other text-based file containing your notes. For example, `my_notes.txt`.

```text
// my_notes.txt
Machine learning is a subfield of artificial intelligence that focuses on developing 
systems that can learn from and make decisions based on data. Unlike traditional 
programming where explicit instructions are provided, machine learning algorithms 
build models based on sample data to make predictions or decisions without being 
explicitly programmed to do so. Supervised learning involves labeled data, while
unsupervised learning deals with unlabeled data. Reinforcement learning is about
agents taking actions in an environment to maximize cumulative reward.
```

#### 3. Create a Configuration File

Next, create a `config.yaml` to define how you want your course to be generated. It will point to your content file.

```yaml
# config.yaml
input:
  path: "my_notes.txt"
output:
  directory: "output/machine_learning_course"
course:
  title: "Introduction to Machine Learning"
generation:
  max_chapters: 5
  fixed_chapter_count: true
parallel:
  enabled: true
```

#### 4. Run the Generator

Now, run the command from your terminal:

```bash
uv run python -m geminiteacher.app.generate_course --config config.yaml
```

The tool will create the specified output directory and fill it with structured markdown files for each chapter and a course summary.

## Key Features

- **Automated Course Structuring**: Intelligently organizes raw text into logical, lesson-based chapters.
- **Config-Driven Workflow**: Use a simple YAML file to control all aspects of course generation.
- **Parallel Processing**: Generates chapters concurrently to dramatically reduce creation time.
- **CLI & Python API**: Use the powerful command-line tool for no-code generation or the Python API for programmatic control.
- **Customizable AI Behavior**: Use custom prompts and temperature controls to tailor the output to your needs.
- **Robust and Reliable**: Includes progressive saving and automatic retries for network errors.

## Learn More

For more advanced CLI options, programmatic Python API usage, and troubleshooting, please see the full [**Usage Guide**](./docs/usage.md).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please check out our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Refactor Makefile and update documentation for improved clarity and organization
- Enhanced the Makefile with detailed command descriptions and added new commands for GUI launching and documentation deployment.
- Updated `mkdocs.yml` to restructure navigation and consolidate documentation links, removing outdated references.
- Revised `README.md` to streamline installation instructions and clarify usage methods, emphasizing the new comprehensive usage guide.
- Removed the obsolete `gui.md` and `installation.md` files, integrating their content into the updated `usage.md` for a more cohesive documentation experience.

README.md, after:

# GeminiTeacher

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/geminiteacher.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/geminiteacher)
[![Build status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/main.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/actions/workflows/main.yml?query=branch%3Amain)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher)](https://img.shields.io/github/license/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher)

**GeminiTeacher** is an AI-powered course creation toolkit using Google's Gemini LLM. It transforms raw text, markdown, or documents into structured, lesson-based educational content. Ideal for educators, developers, and content creators.

- **Full Documentation**: [https://supersheepbear.github.io/GeminiTeacher/](https://supersheepbear.github.io/GeminiTeacher/)
- **Source Code**: [https://github.com/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/](https://github.com/supersheepbear/GeminiTeacher/)

## Ways to Use GeminiTeacher

There are two primary ways to use GeminiTeacher, based on your preference.

| Method | Description | Best For |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 🚀 **GUI Application** | A user-friendly graphical interface with all options available. | Users who prefer a visual interface and easy controls. |
| 💻 **Command-Line (CLI)** | A powerful command-line tool for experts and automation. | Power users, developers, and integration into scripts. |

### Quick Start (GUI)

1.  **Installation**: All setup instructions are in the new [**Usage Guide**](./docs/usage.md).
2.  **Launch the App**: Run the following command in your terminal:
    ```bash
    uv run geminiteacher-gui
    ```
3.  **Generate**: Fill in the fields and click "Generate Course". See the full [**Usage Guide**](./docs/usage.md) for more details.

### Quick Start (CLI)

The command-line interface is best managed with a `config.yaml` file. Full instructions, including setup, are in the [**Usage Guide**](./docs/usage.md).

#### 1. Create a Configuration File

Create a `config.yaml` to define your settings.

```yaml
# config.yaml
input:
  path: "my_notes.txt"
output:
  directory: "output/machine_learning_course"
course:
  title: "Introduction to Machine Learning"
generation:
  max_chapters: 5
  fixed_chapter_count: true
parallel:
  enabled: true
```

#### 2. Run the Generator

Now, run the command from your terminal:

```bash
uv run python -m geminiteacher.app.generate_course --config config.yaml
```

The tool will create the specified output directory and fill it with structured markdown files for each chapter and a course summary.

## Key Features

- **Automated Course Structuring**: Intelligently organizes raw text into logical, lesson-based chapters.
- **Config-Driven Workflow**: Use a simple YAML file to control all aspects of course generation.
- **Parallel Processing**: Generates chapters concurrently to dramatically reduce creation time.
- **GUI & CLI**: Use the user-friendly graphical interface or the powerful command-line tool.
- **Customizable AI Behavior**: Use custom prompts and temperature controls to tailor the output to your needs.
- **Robust and Reliable**: Includes progressive saving and automatic retries for network errors.

## Learn More

For detailed instructions on all features, please see the full [**Usage Guide**](./docs/usage.md).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please check out our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
